# PICanvas
canvas - p5.js/ HTML/ node.js/ socket.io

Development process

Functions

System provides drawing tools to the user. Those are, User can draw circles, User can draw free lines, User can enter any text, User can draw any art which user wants using pencil tool.
And system facilitates to use the same canvas from any number of browsers and once any user made a change to the canvas using any of above tool then other users can view that change as well.
System Requirements

Server side- Server side has been developed using node.js A Web Server is a software application which handles HTTP requests sent by the HTTP client, like web browsers, and returns web pages in response to the clients. In here I have used Node.js to develop the server side and it provides an http module which can be used to create an HTTP client of a server. From Node.js I have used “Express”. Express is a minimal and flexible Node.js web application framework that provides a robust set of features to develop web and mobile applications. It facilitates the rapid development of Node based Web applications. Allows to dynamically render HTML Pages based on passing arguments to templates. And here I have developed the web socket using “socket.io”. Socket.IO is a library that enables real-time, bidirectional and event-based communication between the browser and the server. It consists of a Node.js server, a JavaScript client library for the browser. Every socket.io/webSocket connection starts with an HTTP request. Thus any webSocket server support needs an HTTP server that can field the initial request. That initial request contains an "upgrade" header which is a request to switch to the webSocket protocol so after that is processed, then the incoming HTTP/TCP connection is turned into a webSocket/TCP connection. So, since webSockets are meant to co-exist with the webserver , socket.io must integrate with the web server (in this case Express) so that socket.io can install a handler in the Express http server so that any incoming http requests that happen to be incoming socket.io connections will be handled by the socket.io code rather than by the other Express handlers. So, socket.io can be configured multiple ways. we can pass it out Express instance in which case it will add a request handler to Express. We can pass it a plain http server in which case it will add a request handler to that server or we can pass it a port number and it will create its own http server. In all cases, it needs an http server in order to support incoming socket.io/webSocket connections.

Client side- Client side has been developed using HTML, CSS and JavaScript and I used a special library called p5.js
p5.js is a JavaScript programming library. A programming library can be thought as a collection of code that is built for a specific purpose so that whenever we need to perform an action that relates to that purpose we can use a library instead of building that functionality ourselves. Libraries build on and extend the core capabilities of a language. For JavaScript, there are more than a hundred thousand libraries out there that allows to perform a large variety of operations. So it is always a good idea to check if someone already created an open source or even a paid library for our needs before trying to implement our own functionality. The idea is that, a library would be a battle tested solution for a particular problem that we can utilize with confidence, instead of devising our own solution which might introduce unforeseen problems into the program we are developing. This is particularly true for JavaScript as the core language doesn’t have any built-in, standard, library and hence development efforts rely heavily on external libraries to tackle common problems. p5.js is a creative coding library that is based on the idea of sketching. Just like how sketching can be thought of as a minimal approach to drawing to quickly prototype an idea, p5.js is built on the concept of writing the minimal amount of code to translate our visual, interaction or animation ideas to the screen. p5.js is a JavaScript implementation of the popular library called Processing p5.js has an impressive amount of functionality, history and community behind it to make it a valuable learning investment if we ever wanted to create art, design, motion or interactive pieces using code. A p5.js program can be anywhere from a few lines of code to thousands.
